https://trungams.github.io/2020-08-23-a-simple-http-server-from-scratch/
https://github.com/trungams/http-server
Limites: utilise plusieurs threads et on est autoriser a n'utiliser qu'un seul process/threads

OVERVIEW
	Three steps: 
		1 The client and server establish a TCP connection stream, 
		2 the client sends HTTP request over TCP connection, 
		3 and then the server processes that request and sends back a reply.
	The second and third step can be repeated any number of times, until both client and server decide to close the underlying TCP connection

	In terms of socket programming:
		- Create a socket and listen for new connections.
		- Accept incoming client connections.
		- Receive messages, process them and sends some responses to the client. This is where HTTP message exchange happens.
		- When one party wants to close the connection, it will do that by sending an EOF character and closing the socket file descriptor

	What is an HTTP message? 
	In a client-server setting, HTTP messages are the requests and responses objects exchanged between the two parties.
	An HTTP client sends a HTTP request to an HTTP server, and the server will reply with an HTTP response. 
	The messages must follow some format specified in the RFCs

HTTP MESSAGES
	HTTP message should consist of:
		A start line
			For an HTTP request, this line includes an HTTP method (GET, POST, HEAD, etc), a request target (URI), and a string that indicates the HTTP version (e.g HTTP/1.1).
			For an HTTP response, the start line (or status line) will have the HTTP version that the server used, a status code, an optionally, a message describing the status code. 
			The start line of a message should be terminated by a CRLF character: \r\n
		Header fields
			A list of key-value pairs that appear right after the start line and contain metadata about the HTTP connection and message. 
			Each field should be on a single line and have the format field-name: field-value
		Message body
			An optional sequence of bytes.
			The message body is often present in response messages from the server, and sometimes in requests sent by the client, depending on the HTTP method. 
			An HTTP message body can have any format, as long as both client and server have no issue understanding it.

	Exemples:
		of HTTP request:
			GET /hello.html HTTP/1.1
			Host: 0.0.0.0
			Accept-Language: en, vi

		of HTTP response:
			HTTP/1.1 200 OK
			Server: Hello
			Content-Length: 13
			Content-Type: text/plain

			Hello, world

	Possible classes:
		class HttpMessage
		{
			protected:
				httpVersion;
				headersFields;
				messageBody;
		};
		class HttpRequest : public HttpMessage
		{
			private:
				httpMethod;
				uri;
		};
		class HttpResponse : public HttpMessage
		{
			private:
				httpStatusCode;
		};

Handling concurrent connections
	The recv() and write() system calls would block by default, unless the file descriptor is set to be non-blocking. 
	
	1 client
		Busy waiting is fine as long as there is at most one communication stream happening at a time. 
		If there is one client, then the sequence of actions is exactly the same as we have seen above. The server would wait for a request from the client, read the full request, return a response via the client socket, and repeat. 
	> 1 client	
		However, when there is more than one client, just a single recv() or write() call could block the whole program anytime, causing all the operations to stop until the call returns. 
		This is obviously very bad for a web server application, where the ability to handle communications in parallel is expected. 
	
	Fortunately for us, there are some ways we can go about it:
		Approch #1 (bad idea):
			The first approach is quite intuitive. We create a new thread for each client connection: read/write calls are free to block since it will not affect other clients.
			This approach is good if we have a few clients, and synchronization is not a huge concern (the state of one thread does not break other running threads). 
			However, to scale up to 10,000 threads, one would have to be extremely careful about memory usage. Suppose that each new thread is given a 1MB stack, then 1024 threads already take up 1GB in memory. 
			One can try to minimize the stack size so more threads can be spawned, but that will also impose a much stricter limit on the capacity of the threads.
		Approch #2:
			This leads us to the second approach, that is to set the sockets to non-blocking mode (or use asynchronous I/O), and then we’ll be able to handle multiple clients in a single thread by using multiple filedescriptors.
			This seems to be more memory-friendly than the other approach. 
			To deal with non-blocking I/O, usebepoll. This helps detect which file descriptor is available to perform a read or write on. The epoll_event struct provided allows to store data relevant to the read/write operations.
			After implementing the epoll logic, the program can accept and process requests from multiple clients at the same time.